Proposal for new repository for UI work (#82)
instructlab/dev-docs: docs/ui/project-proposal.md

# New Repository Proposal: ui

## Summary

This document proposes a new repository under the `instructlab` GitHub organization:

- `instructlab/ui`

## Background

> Currently we don’t have public repository under instructlab that hosts UI related work. The goal of this project is to provide a space for hacking a UI for the InstructLab. The scope of this project is to support following persona's through the UI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently we don’t have public repository under InstrucLab that hosts UI-related work. The goal of this project is to provide a space for hacking a UI for the InstructLab. The scope of this project is to support the following personas through the UI:
```

Author: Thanks for the review @leseb . Fixed

- External contributors who want to contribute skill and knowledge to the taxonomy repo

> - Triagers who will be evaluating the taxonomy contributions.

Reviewer 2: Could you clarify if you would only focus on the upstream project workflow, or if you would be creating something people could use to help with managing their own taxonomy repos?  Is it both?

Author: @russellb Main focus of this project is for the upstream workflow (for upstream contributors and upstream traigers). Intent is to develop it as a SaaS service and deploy it somewhere on Cloud (ROSA, IBM Cloud). But that doesn't stop users from deploying this stack in their private data center to manage their own private taxonomy repo if they want to follow similar workflow downstream.

Author: @russellb Let me know if you have any follow-up questions, otherwise I will push the patch to update the doc.

Reviewer 2: I think something designed to be reused is important, too, so I just want to make it really clear whether this project is aiming to serve that need for instructlab or if it's explicitly an upstream-oriented SaaS only.

I think you're saying

- build something deployed as a SaaS for the upstream project and its taxonomy repo and process
- build in a way that someone could deploy the same service on their own infrastructure for managing their own taxonomy repo

Is that right?

Author: Yes, thats correct.

Author: Done. Thanks for the thorough review @russellb

> These persona's are not limited to the above list, but the initial focus will be on these two.

Author: Thanks for catching this @leseb .Fixed

## Maintainers

The initial team of maintainers for this repository will be:

- Anil Kumar Vishnoi <avishnoi@redhat.com>
- Brent Salisbury <bsalisbu@redhat.com>
- Taiga Nakamura <taiga@us.ibm.com>
- Guang-Jie Ren <gren@us.ibm.com>
- Juan Cappi <jmcappi@us.ibm.com>
- Daniel Tan <chungtan@us.ibm.com>
- Gregory Pereira <grpereir@redhat.com>

## Alternatives Considered

### Use `instructlab/instructlab-bot`

> We currently have a very initial version of InstructLab UI related code present in “instructlab/instructlab-bot” repo (in “ui” directory). We can continue hacking the code in that repo, but I believe that is not the right place for the UI work, as instructlab-bot is supposed to be a backend component that is scoped to work as a Triagers assistant tool with no direct interfacing to contributors or traigers. To work with a cleaner scope of these separate work streams, it makes sense to separate the UI work in its own repository.

Author: Fixed.

# New Repository Proposal: ui

## Summary

This document proposes a new repository under the `instructlab` GitHub organization:

- `instructlab/ui`

## Background

Currently we don’t have public repository under InstructLab that hosts UI-related work. The goal of this project is to provide a space for hacking a UI for the InstructLab. The scope of this project is to support the following personas through the UI:

- External contributors who want to contribute skill and knowledge to the taxonomy repo
- Triagers who will be evaluating the taxonomy contributions.

These personas are not limited to the above list, but the initial focus will be on these two.

Intent is to build this UI as a SaaS service for the upstream project and its taxonomy repo, but build in a way that someone could deploy the same service on their own infrastructure for managing their own taxonomy repo.

## Maintainers

The initial team of maintainers for this repository will be:

- Anil Kumar Vishnoi <avishnoi@redhat.com>
- Brent Salisbury <bsalisbu@redhat.com>
- Taiga Nakamura <taiga@us.ibm.com>
- Guang-Jie Ren <gren@us.ibm.com>
- Juan Cappi <jmcappi@us.ibm.com>
- Daniel Tan <chungtan@us.ibm.com>

> - Gregory Pereira <grpereir@redhat.com>

Reviewer 3: Could we following the scheme of having a GitHub Team - say `UI Maintainers` - with these folks as the initial members?

Author: @nathan-weinberg I think we need the proposal to be first approved to go ahead and make the github team, otherwise it doesn't make sense to do that?. I personally would prefer to list the name of the initial maintainers, just to capture the diversity of the collaborators. But happy to fix it according to any policy we have.

Reviewer 2: I think the suggestion is just to make your first sentence

> The initial team of maintainers (UI Maintainers) for this repository will be:

Reviewer 3: Yeah the idea is that after the proposal is merged we could create said `UI Maintainers` GitHub Team and put all y'all on it - tighter permissions-wise and easier for adding/removing people later

Author: Got it. Fixed it. Thanks @russellb @nathan-weinberg for clarifying.
